---
author: anaing
image: assets/images/2019-11-10-Advice_on_Mornings_by_April_Naing_1_photo.png
layout: post
tags: []
title: Advice on Mornings
---

Let's face it. Most of us aren't morning people, and with school
starting again a lot of us aren't used to waking up at the crack of
dawn. Gone are the days when we could sleep until noon and constantly
press "snooze". However mornings aren't the worst! In fact, they can
actually be quite nice. They're quiet and peaceful. The air seems
fresher and catching a sunrise is always a welcome sight. You might even
have a bit of time to be productive! So without further ado, here are
some tips so you can maximize your mornings!

**Go to sleep earlier!**

This one is pretty straightforward. You need adequate sleep to maintain
your health and sanity! What if you have an assignment? Try sleeping
earlier and then waking up earlier to finish it before school starts.
Help your circadian rhythm by sticking to a regular sleep schedule
including on weekends!

**Setting/choosing an alarm**

Sure, annoying alarms will get you up but it'll also put you in a bad
mood to start your morning. It'll leave you feeling murderous. Talk
about waking up on the wrong side of your bed\...

**Wake up earlier than you normally do**

I find that when my alarm goes off getting up is crucial. Lingering
under your covers might be tempting but it also makes you feel more
sluggish and loses precious time for your body to get used to being
awake before you're off to class. Force yourself to get out of bed!
It'll depend on each person but 6am-7am is a good time to wake up.

**Open your curtains!**

Natural lighting = very good. Crack open your window for fresh air and
to hear the birds chirp!

**Put on some music!**

Music can set up the atmosphere and instantly improve your mood in the
morning! You could play your favorite jam to get you pumped up or a nice
soundtrack for a calming and happy effect.

**Water is your best friend**

Your body hasn't had any water for hours by now! Down a glass of fresh
Hâ‚‚O to rehydrate and splash your face with cold water to get refreshed.
You can opt for a quick shower too!

**Breakfast isn't negotiable**

If you're like me you're probably guilty of skipping this vital part of
your mornings. A healthy breakfast improves your memory and mood and
helps you stay concentrated. It's key for productivity. Recently I've
leaned towards a small bowl of cereal or toast, some fruit and a cup of
green tea or coffee!

**Exercise**

Some people may find a walk or run in the morning really helps
especially in the morning when the air feels fresher. Or just brave an
ice cold shower and get a mini heart attack. A warm shower might just
make your drowsier.

**Plan your day!**

The key to a good end is a good start! Jot down a to-do list in your
bullet journal, agenda, phone or just think about it on your commute.
Alternatively you can have a morning journal to write your thoughts or
keep track of your dreams.

**BONUS (Apps to try out!)**

**Sleepyti.me:** This is a sleep calculator that really works! You'll
feel more refreshed in the day if you don't wake up in the middle of a
sleep cycle. Sleepyti.me helps you to wake up at the optimal time so
that you don't interrupt any cycles!

**WhiteNoise:** WhiteNoise is a free app that gives you a ton of tracks
and calming sounds to choose from that will play from your phone to help
you sleep.

**Pacifica:** This one is for if you're feeling stressed or anxious.
Includes trackers and exercises to try. You can also use it to talk to
others who are feeling the same stress. It's a free app too!

Image via Flickr
