---
author: nyotis
layout: post
tags: []
title: Say What You Mean, Mean What You Say
---

If you're not already aware, we are living in an age where everything is
available at our fingertips. News, entertainment, music, etc. - with
just the push of a button it's all there. However, with this newfound
freedom comes a price that I'm sure you're already aware of. What we say
online is usually different, sometimes to an extreme, than what we say
in real life. Most of the warnings that we hear about online safety
include never giving away your personal information, or being mindful of
what it is you're saying. But what we don't hear about as often is how
your personality itself can change. 

Let's say that you're on an app that connects you to other people (your
friends, family, even strangers), and you suddenly see something that
interests you. Immediately you feel the need to comment something, right
then. The world must know about what you have to say. So, you type a
quick comment. Soon, you get a reply and are suddenly having a
conversation on a topic that you, in fact, don't really know much about.
So what do you do? Keep having the conversation? It seems as though
there's no other choice. You can't just log off and leave people
hanging. So you keep talking, thinking it doesn't matter. Who cares if
you're wrong?

This very well might not be you. But the truth is, some people just feel
the need to talk, so, knowing that they'll never actually meet the
person they're talking to and knowing they're not going to have to
actually face the consequences of giving said person misinformation,
they just keep going. This is really something you need to be watchful
of. Telling other people something that isn't true and presenting it as
fact can mislead lots of people, and can also harm your reputation.

Or maybe, instead of talking off the top of your head, you speak in
extremes. You might say that you hate something that you see, but really
just mildly dislike it. Or perhaps you see something that makes you
chuckle a bit, and then say that it was so funny that you were dying of
laughter. 

Exaggerating is an easy thing to do on the internet. You want people to
like what you say, to agree with you. So instead of giving an honest
reply, you turn your comment into something it's not, solely for the
sake of making more people agree with you. This isn't a really terrible
thing, but try to keep it real. While it's okay to exaggerate a bit, you
might end up having a real conversation when you dial it down a few
notches too.

The last thing people do online is be completely silent. Now this may
not sound as bad, and it isn't a big problem, especially compared to the
other things I've been writing about. But you do have social media to
be, well, social. Don't be so afraid to say something that it keeps you
from saying anything entirely. A good thing to keep in mind when
interacting with others on the internet is to say something positive, as
opposed to negative. And if someone says something negative to you, try
to be mature. You don't have to reply, but if you do, make sure that you
aren't being rude or impolite. The best thing to do is just let it go.
You didn't do anything wrong, the other person did, so don't let them
bother you.

All in all, just pay attention to what exactly it is that you're saying
online. It's quite easy to misinterpret what anyone could say when it's
written down, as you don't have facial expressions or emphasis to guide
you. So be careful, and try to assume the best. You catch more flies
with honey than vinegar.
egar.
.
egar.
