---
author: smahmud
layout: post
tags: []
title: "The Reasoning Behind Spider-Man\u2019s Exit from the MCU"
---

If you're a Marvel fan like me, then you've probably heard about the
recent drama between Sony and Disney regarding Spider-Man. If you
haven't heard about what is happening, here's a summary. Sony has owned
the film rights to Spider-Man since 1998. In 2015, they made a deal with
Disney, agreeing to lend the character of Spider-Man to Marvel Studios,
a company owned by Disney, and to the Marvel Cinematic Universe. As we
have seen over the last few years, Tom Holland's Spider Man has played a
large role in many Marvel movies. Recently, Sony and Disney have
revisited their deal, and gone through negotiations about future steps
for the Spider-Man character. On August 20th, 2019, Sony announced that
Kevin Feige, president of Marvel Studios, won't be playing a role in the
production of the next Spider-Man film. This means that Spider-Man is
currently not a part of the MCU anymore. This news left fans feeling
both angry and heartbroken, since Marvel's latest movie, "Spider-Man:
Far From Home" had set up Spider-Man to be the new face of the
franchise. Upon hearing about this, I didn't understand what happened
between the two major companies, and wanted to know the reason behind
the decisions being made. 

Sony owns the rights to Spider-Man and gets to keep them as long as they
make a new Spider-Man movie every five to six years. They started with
"Spider-Man" in 2002, starring Tobey Maguire. After its success, they
proceeded to release "Spider-Man 2", and then "Spider-Man 3" in 2007.
The third movie didn't do quite as well as hoped, costing \$260 million
to make, with profits dipping significantly from the first two movies. 

Five years later, Sony decided to reboot the series, and released "The
Amazing Spider-Man" starring Andrew Garfield. This movie made over \$700
million worldwide. With its success,"The Amazing Spider-Man 2" was made.
Unfortunately, it did not live up to Sony's expectations, with the very
high production costs and lessened excitement from fans. 

Because of their failed attempts, Sony struck a deal with Disney in
2015. Marvel would be able to use Spider-Man in their cinematic
universe, while Sony kept distribution rights and creative control. Sony
producer, Amy Pascal, who played a big role in the creation of the
Spider-Man movies since 2002, produced \"Spider-Man: Homecoming\" and
\"Spider-Man: Far From Home\" with Kevin Feige. This deal had been
upheld by both sides, until Sony decided to revisit the idea of making
their own Spider-Man films. 

Recently, Sony has been doing well with their own 'Universe of Marvel
Characters'. "Venom" made over \$800 million worldwide after being
released in 2018, and "Spider-Man: Far From Home" made over \$1 billion
this summer. These successes have been "just the rebound Sony needed."
Spider-Man is Sony's greatest property, and they are highly motivated to
keep it in their control.. This is why they had such an interest in
taking back the character. Another reason why the deal was being
revisited was because Disney wanted a 50/50 stake in future
\"Spider-Man\" movies. Sony wanted to keep the deal as is: where Marvel
receives up to 5% of first-dollar gross and all merchandising revenue.

As of right now, no new deal has been made. This indicates that unless
something changes, Marvel Studios will not be involved in the making of
new Spider-Man movies, and no MCU characters will be referenced. Sony
hopes that Director John Watts and star Tom Holland will return for two
more Spider-Man films. Even though this feels like a big loss for fans,
we should remember that there are still more movies being made, and even
though Marvel seems to be out of Spider-Man\'s life right now, Sony is
hopeful that a deal could still be made in the future. 

*\*Note: This article was written before the agreement between Sony and
Disney to keep Spiderman in the MCU was reached.*
