---
author: anaing
image: assets/images/2019-11-10-April_Naing_-_Remembrance_Day-2_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: Lest We Forget
---

***Remembrance Day***

Remembrance Day *(Jour du Souvenir)* is observed annually on November
11, the anniversary marking the end of World War 1. 

The First World War was the largest conflict the world had ever seen at
the time. The war was a result of many factors, including political
tension and military alliances. The assassination of Archduke Franz
Ferdinand of Austria in 1914 sparked the beginning of a crisis and the
war began that same year in August. It would become a bloody four year
war with close to 61,000 Canadians killed.

Originally the day was called "Armistice Day" to commemorate the
armistice agreement which ended the war on Monday, November 11, 1918, at
11 a.m, the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month. 

***Vimy Ridge***

Considered Canada's most celebrated Canadian military victory, the
battle of Vimy Ridge was fought from the 9th to 12th of April 1917 on
the Western Front of northern France. Four divisions of the Canadian
Corps fought united and captured the ridge from the German army. It was
the largest territorial advance of any Allied force at that point in the
war. Unfortunately the cost of the victory was overwhelming; more than
10,600 Canadians were killed or wounded in the battle. Today a memorial
stands at the top of the ridge to honour the 11,285 Canadians killed in
France throughout the war who have no marked graves.

***Remembering ***

The day serves to remember all the lives that were lost in the line of
duty and the countless sacrifices soldiers made to uphold international
peace.

Historically there is a National Ceremony on the date each year at the
National War Memorial in Ottawa. It is nationally televised and attended
by the Prime Minister, government officials, veterans organizations'
representatives, diplomatic representatives, dignitaries, veterans as
well as the general public.

***What Can You Do?***

•Remember those who served and the fallen. Honour their sacrifice.

•Have a respectful moment of silence

•Wear the Remembrance Day symbol, a poppy, with the *correct etiquette*,
that is: on the left over your heart, from the last Friday in October
until November 11

Image source: *[\"Remembrance Day
Poppy\_2=\"](https://www.flickr.com/photos/34534185@N00/48685673082) by Sheba\_Also
46000 + photos-Videos is licensed under [CC BY-SA
2.0 ](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/?ref=ccsearch&atype=rich)*
ich)*
