---
author: lli
image: assets/images/2019-11-10-Independent_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "How Independent Are You? A Quiz for Young Adults Who Think They\u2019re Ready\
  \ To Be Adults"
---

For several years, we, the students of MCI, have had, for the most part,
a simple structure to our lives. Wake up. Go to school. Eat. Sleep.
Climb a level in the education system (ideally) annually. Spend your
free time as you like it. This is the regular childhood and adolescence
of most suburban youth. We are extraordinarily lucky to be living in a
time and place that allows us to mature in such a slow, gentle manner.
But like it or not, time is taking us closer to adulthood, buckaroos.
Whether it's dragging you, by the hair, or softly carrying you, we all
have the same destination.

And let's face it, some of us are more ready to become "functioning
members of society" than others. Are you one of them? Let's see how many
bears are ready to tackle the hardships of a grown-up.

This quiz is, of course, purely for fun. Don't bother to cheat or look
up anything. Save your calories for a math test. Answers are at the end!

**1.** *Ideally*, you should be putting at least \_\_ of your earnings
aside as savings.

a)  5% **b)** 10% **c)** 15% **d)** 20% **e)** 30%

**2.** While deep frying french fries, some oil spills on the gas
stovetop and catches fire. Both your countertop and the pot of oil are
on fire! What is the best way (aside from using a fire extinguisher) to
put it out?

a)  Pour a deep bowl of water on all the flames.

b)  Turn off the heat and smother fires with metal (a metal pot lid,
    > baking sheet, etc.).

c)  Move the pot outside, spray water on the countertop and call 911.

d)  Sprinkle a little baking soda on the fires.

**3.** Which of the following is NOT at all covered by OHIP?

a)  Emergency healthcare **b)** Casts and crutches

**c)** Dental surgeries (in a hospital) **d)** Hospital stays

**4.** What does GIC stand for?

a)  Guaranteed Investment Certificate **b)** The newest Kpop group

**c)** Generalized Intensive Care **d)** Green Innovation Committee

**5.** What is the first tool to reach for when your toilet is clogged?

a)  cup plunger **b)** flange plunger

**c)** toilet brush **d)** a wire clothing hanger from Walmart

**6.** Which of these should NOT be stored in the fridge?

a)  Raw zucchini **b)** Whole, unpeeled onions

**c)** Green beans **d)** Cut portobello mushrooms

**7.** The best stitch for strength and security (and mending clothes)
is the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

a)  Straight stitch **b)** Backstitch **c)** Running stitch

**d)** Hidden stitch **e)** Cross stitch **f)** Whip stitch

**8.** How often is it recommended that you clean/change your bedding?

a)  Every 1-2 weeks **b)** Every month

**c)** Every 2 months **d)** It doesn't matter, as long as it looks
clean and doesn't smell

**9.** When is electricity the cheapest in Ontario?

a)  Before 7 am and after 7 pm, weekdays

b)  11 am to 5 pm, weekdays

c)  Weekends and holidays

d)  Electricity is the same price at any time of the day

e)  Both a and c

**10.** Who can ask you for your SIN (Social Insurance Number)?

a)  Your college/university admissions office

b)  Your landlord, negotiating a lease with you

c)  Your (confirmed) employer

d)  No one but the government

That's all I have for you now! Hopefully you did well. If not, don't
worry-you still have time to learn. Most people pick this kind of stuff
up as they go, anyway. Though this couldn't have gone too badly. I
didn't even put any questions on doing taxes. Maybe next issue\~?

**Answers: **

1.(d) 2.(b) 3.(b) 4.(a) 5.(b) 6.(b) 7.(b) 8.(a) 9.(e) 10.(c)

Image via Shutterstock
