---
author: rmatharu
image: assets/images/2019-11-12-November__A_Time_to_be_Empowered_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: A Time to be Empowered
---

**November: A Time to be Empowered**

***Rhea Matharu***

*Grade 11 Copy Editor & Production Head*

I believe, in order to be empowered to take action about this unrevealed
(for now) issue, you will need to be in a different perspective. Close
your eyes and read the following.

*You begin as a piece of cheap fabric that required 2700 litres of water
(an average person drinks this in 2.5 years). The workers are tired,
struggling with scars on their hands, to piece you together for a living
wage. However, you are only **one*** of **many**. *About* **140 billion
garments** *are manufactured each year. The amount of resources spent on
you account for nothing as you have a short lifespan. Your impact? You
produced 1.2 billion tonnes of CO2 (per year), yet end up in a landfill
producing more methane. *

This horrifying perspective effectively portrays the product life cycle
that a fast fashion piece of garment experiences. This exposes the
perceived benefit of \$20 jeans that last for a very short amount of
time due to its cheap materials. This short lifespan is largely because
of brands like Forever21, Zara, and H&M wanting to match the growing
demand for new, trendy clothing, resulting in new clothing designs and
styles being created every few weeks! Instead of two season cycles,
there are at least 52 seasons for clothing in the fast fashion industry.

Now that you have learned about the harms of the fashion industry, learn
about what you, the consumer, can do to help.

1.  Reduce the amount of clothing you buy from fast fashion stores, or
    > even better, stop shopping there altogether. Shop from thrift
    > stores or stores that sustainably produce their items. The
    > decreasing demand is sure to change their manufacturing processes.

2.  Instead of throwing out your clothing, donate it to stores that
    > accept them or your friends/family. Before buying your clothes,
    > make sure you know that you will wear it a significant amount of
    > times.

3.  Reach out to these fast fashion brands to express your concerns.

4.  Spread awareness to people you know to expose the hidden truths
    > behind these companies.

This November, empower yourself and others to create less carbon
emissions. The fast fashion industry is one of the largest contributors,
if not the largest, to climate change. Surprisingly, it is not one that
people think of. It's harm on the planet and terrible working conditions
in factories must be put to an end.
