---
author: lbaumgart
image: assets/images/2020-05-01-So_Much_for_Reconciliation_-_Luke_Baumgart_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: [featured]
title: So Much for 'Reconciliation'
---

The latest conflict between the Wet'suwet'en Hereditary Chiefs and their
supporters, and those supporting the Coastal GasLink Pipeline has
revealed that Canada remains set in its role as a colonizer. Before the
beginning of this year, it may have been easy to deny that Canada
remains a colonizing power, but no longer can that appeal to ignorance
be made. 

For those unfamiliar with the situation, here are the main events. At
the beginning of this year, following a Dec. 31st injunction from the
B.C. Supreme Court, militarized RCMP officers raided a camp of First
Nations land defenders, arresting people on their sovereign territory.
In reaction, protesters led demonstrations and blocked railways across
the country. 

The actions of these protesters and the original Wet\'suwet\'en land
defenders have been highly criticized across Canada in ways that are
misguided and problematic. The record must be set straight.

An RCMP raid on Wet'suwet'en land amounts to an invasion of a foreign
nation. According to the Canadian law and the United Nations Declaration
on the Rights of Indigenous People, these land defenders have the right
to self-governance and territorial sovereignty. 

This is an act of colonial exploitation. Canada is a colonial power.
Canada was created to extract natural resources. To do this, the
Canadian Government along with private corporations killed, ethnically
cleansed, and commited cultural genocide against First Nations people.
We saw this in Residential Schools, in the Sixties Scoop and we continue
to see it today. This was done to free up land for both resource
extraction and settlers to do the work. It is inherently racist and
morally abhorrent in every way. 

A common misconception is that the pipeline is legitimate and accepted
because the elected band council system has okayed it. It must be
recognized though, that the elected band council is a system put into
place by the Indian Act to make band councils more similar to other
colonial governments. According to the traditional Wet\'suwet\'en system
of government, the Hereditary Chiefs are the true and legitimate
leaders. This has been upheld by the Supreme Court.

Finally, putting all this aside, there should be no pipelines. At all.
Anywhere. We are in a climate emergency. Arguments are made about the
economy and the need to slowly ease off fossil fuels. Unfortunately, the
time for that is long gone. Science says we need to stop producing oil
and natural gas now.

Many Canadians are unaware of these issues, but it has become
increasingly important in political discourse in recent years. Recent
movement towards "Reconciliation" would have the average citizen believe
that Canada and its government have ceased colonial actions and are
working to right the wrongs done over the past 400 years. This most
recent conflict clearly shows that the government cares not for
Indigenous Peoples' rights when there is money to be made.
Reconciliation is a farce while colonization continues. Knowing this,
when you stand for O Canada, ask yourself: Do you stand for colonialism?
Do you stand for cultural genocide? Do you stand for ignoring human
rights? If not, consider staying seated. 

*Opinion Piece *

Image source: *"Wet\'suwet\'en Solidarity Event - Rail Yard near Pioneer
Village Station Blockaded - Vaughan, Toronto, Ontario - February 15,
2020." By [Jason Hargrove from
Flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/salty_soul/49542240712/)*
