---
author: smehta
image: assets/images/2020-12-17-Sonder_Why_It_Is_More_Meaningful_Than_Ever.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Sonder: Why It Is More Meaningful Than Ever"
---

Do you know what "sonder" means? Don't worry if you don't; it's a word
that's not even in the dictionary. It was first coined in 2012 by author
John Koenig, whose project *The Dictionary of Obscure Sorrows* aims to
come up with new words for emotions that currently lack words. Sonder is
defined in Koenig's book as, "the realization that each random passerby
is living a life just as vivid and complex as your own - populated with
their own ambitions, friends, routines, losses, worries and craziness."

I'm grateful for this term, because sonder is a feeling I know but have
never been able to name, until now. It's especially reminiscent of
looking out over the city from the top of a Toronto skyscraper, seeing
cars below me like ants on a sidewalk, people walking around the size of
pinpricks. Looking down on so much life makes you think about the names
and experiences behind all those faces. As human beings, we all go
through many challenges. But do we ever extend this knowledge outwards,
thinking that because *we* experience so much, so does everyone else?
It's a hard concept to grasp. To consider the fact that all we are and
everything we think is reconfigured in every single little pinprick of a
person, only differentiated by their experiences and past, is
overwhelming. It's a realization that - no matter how much you think
about it - is not possible to fully comprehend. This is no fault of our
own; it just means that we cannot fully understand the value and depth
of others' lives unless we experience every detail ourselves, and this
is impossible.

This brings me to a story that is popular at this time of year: *A
Christmas Carol*, by Charles Dickens. This famous Christmas story is of
Scrooge, a cold and unsympathetic man who is visited by the ghosts of
Christmas Past, Present, and Future. These spirits take him through his
own timeline to remind him that what you do can have a colossal impact
on the lives of others. This realization drives Scrooge to understand
the meaning behind others' lives, and that people can be going through
incredibly difficult situations without ever making it apparent. He thus
becomes a better person, with stronger senses of generosity and
kindness. This story relates to the term 'sonder' because it teaches
that other people's lives are much more complex and difficult than we
know, just as the definition of the word states. By learning this,
Scrooge is able to change for the better and help people rather than
hinder them. But why is this important for us to realize?

Every single day, we impact the lives of others whether we realize it or
not. Impacting someone else's life can be as simple as giving a homeless
person a dollar, smiling at someone on the street, or telling a loved
one you care about them. It can also include being rude to a bus driver
because you're having a bad day, cutting in front of someone in a line,
or honking your horn at another car when driving. Good or bad, all these
things end up making a difference in someone else's life, no matter how
small this difference may be. This is the astute declaration that sonder
brings with it, despite being a term for a quiet kind of sorrow; it also
demands that upon realizing that everyone is living a life as motley as
your own, you must do what you can to ensure you don't make someone's
life more difficult.

This is why the term sonder is especially important today, in this
fascinating and unparalleled year. We all know that 2020 has brought
challenges that no one could have foreseen, and we're all struggling
with the continuation of COVID-19. Yet we must remember that despite
what we are personally dealing with because of COVID-19, we are not
alone in our difficulties. There are people we may meet once, or never
at all, who are in equally or even more difficult situations than
ourselves. We must carry this realization with us throughout our lives,
because it teaches us true empathy and understanding. It can drive us to
be more compassionate and more aware of what we do each day, even in the
smallest of ways. To understand sonder is also to change your
perspective, and reconsider your life in terms of the fact that you are
not alone in what you deal with, and you never have been.

To leave you with imagery that truly captures the sorrow of the term,
imagine being on a city street at night, looking up at a tall building.
It's a snowy evening, with people bundled up in coats and scarves,
streetlights brightened and buses passing loudly; above you, rising high
into the cold air, an apartment building spotted with brightly lit
windows. It is in imagining this situation that you must think of all
the lives bustling around you. The people passing on the street are
going somewhere, and they too are thinking of how cold they are, but
also about whatever's troubling them, which could be anything from math
homework to a dying family member in the hospital. You will never know,
but you must realize that this is something you cannot see. The people
on the bus are heading somewhere; maybe home from work after a long day,
maybe to see someone that they miss, maybe to go visit friends; the bus
driver, too, is perhaps sick and tired of carting people around all day.
Above you, in the lit apartment windows, people are warming up after a
long day outside, sitting on furniture they may have laboured over
putting together, or spent time saving up to buy. Maybe they are
experiencing a pivotal moment in their lives; having a monumental fight,
or celebrating a birthday with loved ones. The fact is, you will simply
never know. To them, you are a passerby too; a pinprick on the street
when looking out a window, a blur as the bus passes and turns a corner,
or a bundled-up somebody on the street that they overlook and never see
again.

To understand sonder is to feel overwhelmed by this realization, to know
that you can do nothing to slow the flow of complicated existence taking
place all around you. You are but one single person in a world of
billions. Sonder is a sorrow because it is almost painful to know that
there is so much life and joy yet so much loss and pain in the world,
all of which you will never be aware of.

To conclude, I want to leave you with the full definition of sonder; I
only provided part of it in the beginning of this article to explain the
term's intensity without simply stating so. As the original definition
from John Koenig's *Dictionary of Obscure Sorrows* eloquently describes,
"Sonder is the realization that each random passerby is living a life as
vivid and complex as your own---populated with their own ambitions,
friends, routines, losses, worries and craziness---an epic story that
continues invisibly around you, with elaborate passageways to thousands
of other lives that you'll never know existed, in which you might appear
only once, as an extra sipping coffee in the background, as a blur of
traffic passing on the highway, as a lighted window at dusk."

Image Source: *"Minneapolis, United States" by Josh Hild from
pexels.com*
