---
author: smahmud
image: assets/images/2020-05-15-Knowledge_is_Power_Why_to_Stay_Informed_During_the_Pandemic_-_Sanaa_Mahmud_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: [featured]
title: 'Knowledge is Power: Why to Stay Informed During the Pandemic'
---

If there is one word to describe the world we live in today, it would
be, "uncertain." Uncertain of what to do, where to go next, and what is
going to happen in the near future. Everywhere we turn, the words
"virus" and "pandemic" flood our ears, making it incredibly challenging
to think of anything else. It may be tempting to try to block out the
world altogether to avoid bad news, but one thing to remember is that we
must stay informed during these times. We have to stay on top of
information regarding our global situation, for a number of valid
reasons. 

For one, keeping updated is a way to do our part to stop the spread of
the virus. We all have an important role to play within our communities.
We have to look out for ourselves, and those around us. You may hear the
phrase, "we're all in this together" quite often, and wonder what it
means. Obviously we're not physically together, and isolation makes it
feel like we're actually farther apart. And no, it's not a High School
Musical reference. This phrase is meant to convey that everyone is
currently going through the same situation. It means we all need to
remain united against a common threat, and work to keep ourselves and
the community safe. This can be achieved through listening to our public
health officials, and taking proper precautions, like social distancing.
One can only be aware of these precautions by keeping up with the news,
and staying informed. 

Another reason to stay informed is knowing how to respond to challenges
during this time. Most of the world, let alone all MCI students, have
never been part of any pandemic situation before. No one knows how to
act or where to begin trying to cope with all the changes. These changes
cause many to feel scared, helpless and not in control. By staying
informed on new developments of the virus, as well as the necessary
precautions to take, you are educating yourself on how to combat our new
reality. This education becomes a way to feel in control, and stay on
top of the fear. A study conducted by the International Journal of
Environmental Research and Public Health (IJERPH) found that those who
had reliable and updated information regarding the coronavirus felt more
prepared to handle it. Also, people who received accurate information
about the virus had lower levels of stress, anxiety and depression. So
when staying updated on information concerning the virus, not only are
you learning about ways to react, but you are possibly improving the
status of your mental health. By learning more about what threatens us,
we can combat fear, and remain feeling in control. 

Another major reason to remain informed is to stay connected with the
outside world. Through television, newspapers, and the internet, we are
able to momentarily escape our self-isolation and see what is happening
throughout the globe. For example, by watching the news, not only are
you getting information, you are seeing the contrasting effects of the
virus around the world. You get to see what other people are doing, and
how other countries are reacting. Most importantly, you get to be
reminded that you are not alone, since the whole world is going through
the same thing. Getting information and updates is your ticket to
experiencing the world once again, because it allows you to see what
others are doing. 

Finally, although our world may seem scary and uncertain, it is also one
that will go down in the history books. People will remember these past
few months as the worst crisis since WWII, meaning we are all making
history. I'd like to believe our children or even grandchildren may ask
about this time; how it felt to live in self-isolation, be off from
school, and watch everything around us shut down. In order to speak to
our experiences, we should be aware of what's happening throughout the
world. Even though this crisis is terrible, we should be immersing
ourselves in the current information and updates, so we remember when
it's over. Those who weren't present during this time will want to know
everything, and I, for one, want to be able to share it. So, think about
it like this: staying informed is a way to truly be a part of this
event, and if we don't know what's going on around us, we may be letting
a historic occurrence pass us by. 

To conclude, it is really important to remain informed and updated about
the virus, as well as other current events around the world. Now, this
doesn't mean glueing yourself to the TV or reading every newspaper
article. You can be informed by just watching the news once a day, for a
brief period of time. Alternately, you can go online to the *Globe and
Mail*, the *New York Times*, the *Washington Post*, or countless other
newspaper sources, and read a couple articles. By taking ten minutes out
of each day, you can learn so much about what is happening around you.
Being informed is all about feeling confident and resilient enough to go
about your daily life, without feeling worried. We must remember that
even in a world of uncertainty, there are ways to fight back, and remain
in control. 

Sources: <https://cmha.bc.ca/covid-19-stay-informed/>

  <https://www.mdpi.com/1660-4601/17/5/1729>

Image Source: *"The New York Times Newspaper" by cottonbro from Pexels*
