---
author: ntelesford
image: assets/images/2020-05-15-A_Message_for_Students_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: [featured]
title: A Message for Students
---

So, we aren't going back to school tomorrow. Whether you are a part of
the \"I knew the lockdown would be extended\" group, or one of the
hopeful students who wanted their school schedule back, we are in this
together (but 6 feet apart of course.) 

This period of self isolation has been a unique experience no one could
have predicted. Some people seem to be enjoying their individual time or
bonding time with family, while others long to be outside, hanging out
with friends and going on adventures. All I can say is, this too, shall
pass. Keep up with your Google Classroom notifications and join the
class calls- I know it can be easy to ignore the notifications, but you
have to remember that you will need this knowledge for years of
education to come. Still, don\'t be too hard on yourself. If you aren\'t
being as productive as you were before, it's because change is
exhausting. 

Finally, I must include special mentions to the Class of 2020. Even
though the world is turning upside down, we all had expectations for our
senior year that are just not going to happen. It\'s unfortunate how we
have been impacted, but the best years of our life are yet to come. So,
hold on to hope and dream for the future because there are great things
to come for all of us. Thanks for reading, fellow quaran-teen! 

Image Source: *"Writing with a Graphic Pen" by Viktor Hanacek from
Picjumbo*
