---
author: sliao
image: assets/images/2020-04-30-Podcast_Pontifications_-_Susanna_Liao_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: [featured]
title: Podcast Pontifications
---

You're on the bus, in a car, in your room, waiting at a doctor's office,
or just sitting around doing nothing. It's not worth the effort to pull
out a book, there's no access to your favourite TV show, and you want
something a bit more rewarding than listening to music. The solutionー
podcasts! Podcasts are one of the most underappreciated forms of media
out there. They are audio programs that focus on the spoken word, like a
radio talk show but better. Podcasts are easily accessible, widely
available, and there is a podcast for everyone out there, whether you're
looking for lighthearted comedy, news and politics, or dramatic
storytelling. But where to start? In a day and age where time is
literally money and there are thousands of forms of entertainment all
vying for your attention, it can seem overwhelming to decide what to
choose. That's why I'm here to help! I've chosen a couple of my all time
favourite podcasts (and I listen to a *lot* of podcasts). So, whether
you're brand new to the world of podcasts or an experienced veteran,
here are some of my suggestions that I hope each of you will at least
give a try. Enjoy!

1.  **The Anthropocene Reviewed by John Green**

*The Anthropocene Reviewed* is a monthly podcast about all things human.
In this podcast, John Green (author of *The Fault in Our Stars* among
other things) reviews anything and everything on a five star scale. The
topics range from the QWERTY keyboard to velociraptors to teddy bears to
*Super Mario Kart*. On the surface it may seem like a shallow, fun-time,
but it often delves deep into what connects us all and makes us human
through the lens of ridiculous and everyday objects and events. By the
end of an episode about hot dog eating contests you may be having an
existential crisis about the worth of your own existence and why we're
all really here. Sometimes heartbreaking and sometimes uplifting, every
episode is a new and delightful discovery about what it means to be
human. Episodes are about half an hour long and there's no set order or
plot, so you can pick it up anywhere, but you may find yourself binge
listening like I do. It's one of my all time favourite podcasts because
I love the juxtaposition of absurd topics and thoughtful discussion.
It'll make you laugh one moment and cry the next, which is why I
recommend *The Anthropocene Reviewed*.

2.  **Myths and Legends by Jason and Carissa Weiser**

*Myths and Legends* is a weekly podcast retelling old musty myths in a
new, funky way. This podcast aims to tell stories, from (in)famous tales
like *Robin Hood* and *Hansel and Gretel* to ones you may have never
heard of but will love, like *The Eyrie and Meng Jiangnu and the Great
Wall*. It also features a "Creature of the Week" segment, discussing
foolish and fantastical creatures from myths all over the world. Jason
Weiser recounts these tales in a way that's entertaining, funny, and
keeps you on the edge of your seat. This podcast is an old favourite of
mine because it's lighthearted and comforting, like a good chicken
noodle soup. *Myths and Legends* is something that I go back to time and
again because it's casual enough to listen to while doing chores or
other mind numbing tasks, funny and entertaining, but still carry a
lesson. Episodes are usually half an hour to an hour long; some stories
split into sagas several episodes long, but most are individual
installments you can pick and choose from. I'd recommend *Myths and
Legends* to anyone looking for an interesting and educational
storytelling podcast.

3.  **Science Vs by Gimlet Media**

*Science Vs* is a weekly podcast that examines controversial topics in a
science focused way. Narrated by Wendy Zuckerman and produced by Gimlet
Media, this podcast covers many topics, from police shootings to killer
asteroids to the coronavirus to vaping. It's a great surface level
introduction to these topics and many more, debating the pros and cons
and often bringing in experts to talk about them. *Science Vs* is both
educational and entertaining to listen to, and the topics are often very
relevant to current events or everyday life. I like the informational
yet conversational tone of the podcast and that it gives a generic idea
of the topic without going too in depth, so it can be informative
without feeling stuffy and formal. Episodes are about an hour long and
stand alone, so you can listen to just what piques your interest without
being dragged down by over a hundred episodes. I'd recommend *Science
Vs* to anyone interested in learning something new in a fun and engaging
way.

I encourage you to go explore podcasts on Spotify, Soundcloud, or any
other digital platform. Happy podcasting! 

Image sources:*"Anthropocene Reviewed" from
[johngreenbooks.com](http://www.johngreenbooks.com/)*

*"Science Vs" from [gimletmedia.com](https://gimletmedia.com/)*

*"Myths and Legends" from
[mythpodcast.com](https://www.mythpodcast.com/)*
