---
author: ekim
image: assets/images/2020-04-30-Unlocking_Your_Full_Potential_-_Emily_Kim_photo.jpg
layout: post
tags: [featured]
title: Unlocking Your Full Potential
---

Recently, I picked up the book *Mindset* by Carol Dweck and became
obsessed. While I run the risk of being melodramatic, I must say that
this book has offered me a new perspective on life and a solution to a
problem that I once thought unsolvable. Now, before I go into any
further details, I want to ask you, the reader, a question. Do you think
that intelligence is something you are born with or something you can
develop?

 Before reading this book I always believed that intelligence, among
other attributes, was a fixed value that couldn't be altered. I believed
that while hard work could allow you to accomplish more, it wouldn't
change your inherent aptitude for something. For example, when I would
do poorly on a math or science test (and trust me this happened far too
often), I would tell myself that "science just wasn't my thing." The
problem with this mentality is that it didn\'t allow room for growth. In
my head, it felt irrational and too challenging to constantly put more
effort into science. Sure, I could study a week in advance for every
science test, but what was the point? I didn't want to keep putting my
blood, sweat and tears into science just to stay on par with the rest of
my marks, or peers (who I believed had natural aptitudes for science).
What I didn't understand though, is that nobody can sustainably excel at
something without putting work in. Intelligence and skills can be
cultivated in almost every facet of your life. Personality,
intelligence, athletic ability, social skills etc. can all be developed,
over time, through hard work, good strategies and input from others.

 By viewing our attributes, and others\', as fixed values, we are forced
to place our self-esteem on our natural abilities alone. So, when faced
with failure, we are devastated as we believe that we will never
overcome them fully. Conversely, with a growth mindset, you spend less
time worrying about how talented or \"good\" at something you are and
focus instead on learning and growing your abilities. Often, when faced
with criticism or failure, we retract into feelings of insecurity and
defensiveness, which directly inhibits our growth and opportunity to
learn from our mistakes. People are born with an inherent love for
learning, but a fixed mindset, derived from society\'s institutionalized
habit of praising natural ability, ruins this. We live in a world where
we believe people are either innately superior or inferior and,
therefore, we stick to easy tasks that we excel in, to repeatedly affirm
our feelings of superiority, while simultaneously avoiding things that
expose our inferiority. We sweep under the rug, the parts of our life
that need the most nurturing and attention, leaving them more neglected
and weak than ever before. With this behaviour, we slam the door on any
chance of genuine improvement and growth by letting our conquerable
weaknesses constantly hold us back from our true potential.

For this new year, I urge you to reignite your passion for learning by
letting go of your fear of failure through the belief that skills and
ability can be grown and cultivated. Unfortunately, I can\'t get into
all the nitty-gritty details about what a growth mindset is and how to
achieve it (it'll take up the entire Beacon), so I strongly urge you to
read Dr. Dweck\'s book.

It's important to note though that real change and improvement will take
commitment and patience. You can't expect to immediately flourish at
something you are weak in, just by suddenly putting more effort in. It
will take dedication and time to hone your skills and help them develop
to the standard at which you want them. The main idea is to not get
discouraged. When I first took on this mindset, believe it or not, I
performed worse than I usually do. But instead of giving up, I pressed
on and used my low marks to determine my mistakes and how to better
prepare in the future.

If you are reading this and somehow haven't gotten bored from my
rambling, I sincerely hope that you are motivated and interested in
taking up this new attitude and perspective on life. Our world needs
more growth-minded people than ever before, as we live in a world with
infinite possibilities and challenges that can only be overcome by those
most willing to try. As I wrap this up, I\'ll leave you with one last
piece of advice: NEVER - especially in the face of adversity - fixate on
your present ability, but instead on your potential, what is possible
and what you can become.

Image Source:
*[\"Mindset\"](https://www.flickr.com/photos/128573122@N05/18658685910) by [davis.steve32](https://www.flickr.com/photos/128573122@N05) is
licensed under [CC BY
2.0 ](https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/null?ref=ccsearch&atype=rich)*
