---
author: eca
image: assets/images/washrooms_cancelled.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "ðŸ¥“ Washrooms Cancelled At MCI"
---

MCI students have changed much of their school life to combat the
Covid-19 virus. We have to wear masks, socially distance, and use the
quadmester system, if we are going to school at all. However, we still
have the luxury of using the amazing Martingrove washrooms, a luxury
that we may also have to give up. In a secret meeting with Beacon staff,
the administration at our school revealed their plans to ban the use of
our bathrooms, mandating instead MCI Bear diapers for all students.
Weâ€™ve decided to break the news to the public, as this is a great blow
to our community.

Of course, we must take all measures necessary to combat this pandemic.
If that means wearing diapers, then so be it. We recognize that this may
be a change, but honestly, it is a return to a simpler time. Just 14
years ago, most Martingrove students would have been walking around with
a diaper anyway, so this might be just the change we need to be more
comfortable at school.

This is not only for in person students though. Because Martingrove aims
to be inclusive and incorporate everyone into our community, the school
has decided that virtual students will also partake in this diaper
wearing. This is to unite the students and have us all feel the bear
spirit. All students can pick up their Bear Diaper at the main office on
Monday and Tuesday. Remember, weâ€™re all in this together!


*This article is part of "The Bacon" - The Beacon's April Fools' edition. We hope you enjoyed!*
