---
author: smahmud
image: assets/images/2021-01-27-Snowflakes-and-People-How-Differences-Make-Us-Special.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: 'Snowflakes and People: How Differences Make Us Special'
---

Have you looked outside lately? With the new year now upon us, we are
beginning to see the classic staple of living in this northern country:
snow. White, soft, beautiful, all-encompassing snow. We watch, as each
flake hits the ground, bringing us deeper into the winter season. But if
you have ever paid close attention to the individual snowflakes as they
fall, you’ve observed that each snowflake is different. Like snowflakes,
people are unique, each having differences that deserve to be
celebrated. To understand why differences are in our nature, we can look
at how snowflakes come to be different.

Get ready for a small science lesson! Snowflakes are different due to
the fact that they each consist of countless water molecules. The
Washington Post states that, by one estimate, a snowflake may have up to
a quintillion molecules! The process starts on the Earth’s surface, as
water evaporates from large water bodies. In the wintertime, the cold
air causes the water vapour to form into small liquid droplets, which
condense onto nearby matter like pollen, forming tiny ice crystals. The
crystals float through the air, and collide with water vapour molecules.
As they collide, the water vapour goes directly from a gas to a solid,
turning a previously miniscule ice crystal into a snowflake that will
fall to the ground.

When these flakes first come together, they interestingly look quite
similar; they all have a hexagonal lattice shape, due to the way
hydrogen and oxygen bond to make water. Certain edges of the snowflakes
are rough and jagged; these are the parts that attract more water
molecules in hopes of becoming more uniform. The jagged arms have little
amounts of water molecules added to them, causing them to grow into
intricate snowflakes. Each snowflake keeps developing, for about 45
minutes to an hour, gathering more crystals on top of one another to
form visible patterns. This causes the possibilities of a snowflake’s
structural arrangement to be just about endless. This process is
incredibly interesting, because if snowflakes simply stopped developing
right after their formation, they would all be pretty much the same.

Yet with fluctuating temperatures, weather conditions, and physics,
snowflakes take on distinct shapes and sizes. For example, ice crystals
will only form between -2.8 and 0 degrees Celsius. If this temperature
is lowered, the snowflakes will have thin, needle-like structures, or
even “fern-like arms.'' Humidity also affects the appearance of a
snowflake, with lower humidity making them wider. Higher humidity
develops their edges more, and also provides optimal conditions for
packing snow!

When thinking about the amazing singularities of snow, I can’t help but
think about how humans differ from one another as well. Each person has
their own unique thoughts, experiences, and memories. No two people have
lived the same life, meaning every single human has differing complex
viewpoints on a variety of topics. Just like the crystals on a
snowflake, we have undergone our own unique transformations, and our
experiences shape the people we become. It’s absolutely mind-blowing!

This fact is not meant to make you feel trivialized, but to do the
opposite. Although we may seem similar on the surface, every person is
distinctive. Each and every one of us provides value to the world around
them, just as each snowflake falls to form a beautiful winter
wonderland.

So, the next time you look outside and see snowflakes descending one by
one, be reminded of each one’s singularity. Marvel at the beauty of
nature, and its ability to create billions of entities, each being
exceptional and irreplicable.

Sources:\
[*https://science.howstuffworks.com/nature/climate-weather/atmospheric/is-every-snowflake-actually-unique.htm*](https://science.howstuffworks.com/nature/climate-weather/atmospheric/is-every-snowflake-actually-unique.htm)\
[*https://www.dw.com/en/life-cycle-of-a-snowflake/g-18148333\#:\~:text=It%20takes%20about%20an%20hour,more%20humidity%20cause%20larger%20flakes*](https://www.dw.com/en/life-cycle-of-a-snowflake/g-18148333#:~:text=It%20takes%20about%20an%20hour,more%20humidity%20cause%20larger%20flakes)

Image Source:\
[*https://www.chemistryworld.com/news/what-makes-a-snowflake-special/3008386.article*](https://www.chemistryworld.com/news/what-makes-a-snowflake-special/3008386.article)
