---
author: smehta
layout: post
tags: []
image: assets/images/2021-02-08-Devils_In_The_Details.jpg
title: "The Devil’s in the Details: Similarities Between Supremacists"
---

The unease across North America was palpable on January 6th, 2021.
Whether you were watching the news, listening to the radio while driving
home, or getting updates on Twitter, everyone was in disbelief as angry
supporters of Donald Trump stormed the United States Capitol. It seemed
incredulous that a group of pro-Trump rioters could have the boldness to
wreak such havoc and succeed.

But our shock on the 6th was not justified: history and literature has
warned us for centuries that discrimination-based tensions always rise
to the surface, and that beliefs in supremacy often result in danger to
those that don’t fit the mould. We should’ve been expecting a situation
like this, due to the racist nature of the attackers (people that
support Trump so avidly are almost always racist.) Racial tensions have
been bubbling in the United States for decades, but they reached a
boiling point this past summer with a resurgence of the Black Lives
Matter movement. This wasn’t our only warning. Literary stories of
violent injustice have time and time again mirrored what we’re facing
now. Look, for example, at Margaret Atwood’s *The Handmaid’s Tale.*


*The Handmaid’s Tale* is undoubtedly a story of injustice. It follows
Offred, a woman under the patriarchal dystopian rule of Gilead, who is
enslaved to be a child bearer. This story defines gender injustice
rather than racial, but follows the same pattern of today’s challenges,
starting with an event that parallels the attack on the Capitol.

In *The Handmaid’s Tale,* the emergence of The Republic of Gilead was
spurred by an effective *coup d’etat* by the leaders of Gilead, the Sons
of Jacob, during which they “shot the President and machine-gunned the
Congress… the entire government, gone like that…” (Atwood 162). Sound
familiar? It should. If Capitol security had not been so quick to
evacuate members of the Senate, including Vice President Mike Pence and
Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, maybe we would have faced a
*Handmaid’s Tale*-esque situation of assasination. After all, many of
the rioters were carrying guns and homemade explosives. But an even more
prominent parallel between the Sons of Jacob and the Capitol attackers
is their beliefs.

The standout belief among Trump’s most resolute supporters is their
white supremacist ideology. The Capitol rioters are the same people who
praised Trump’s racist immigration laws and his numerous racist
statements during his presidency; denounced the Black Lives Matter
movement and countered it with the mocking statement “All Lives Matter”;
and continued to not care when black people were murdered by the police
time and time again, but rather praised the officers who did so. I’m
scared of these people; we all should be.

These rioters’ opinions are reflected in the obvious ones of the Sons of
Jacob. For these men, having rank above all women is a fulfillment of
their belief in male supremacy. This is exactly the belief of Trump’s
army of white supremacists, just in terms of race rather than gender.
Just as the Sons of Jacob are living in their own personal utopia while
the women below them are in a tortuous dystopia, these white
supremacists believe that the world should be made to suit their beliefs
directly. Regardless of the common good, they care only for their own
benefit and fulfillment of their personal ideology. The desire for white
supremacy is directly achieved by having a white supremacist in high
office; the loss of the rioters’ grand wizard spurred their attack.
Therefore, these two instances are equal; one is a belief in male
supremacy, the other in white supremacy - but they’re cut from the same
cloth.

The Trump-crazed attackers of the Capitol compare to the Sons of Jacob
in many ways. But this concept of supremacy, whether of skin colour or
gender, is the backbone of all their similarities. When strongly
believed in by a group of people, supremacy can have incredibly
dangerous results for those outside of their ideal. The Sons of Jacob’s
belief in male supremacy in *The Handmaid’s Tale* is devastating to all
women, just as today’s white supremacists’ beliefs have also been
devastating. White supremacy has taken lives, and the attack on the
Capitol is only one example of the danger it brings. Both events, the
fictional and the real, show that no matter how beneficial something is
for the ideology of one group, it is always detrimental to others that
don’t hold the same belief. Thus, the Capitol attack and the fictional
reign of the Sons of Jacob are reason enough to be apprehensive of all
supremacists, no matter what they stand for.

[Image source](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:DC_Capitol_Storming_IMG_7965.jpg)
