---
author: eca
image: assets/images/Capitol_Hill_Riots.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Capitol Hill Riots: Could It Happen Here?"
---

On January 6, 2021, an armed insurrection occurred at the United States
Capitol. This was the outcome of months of priming, where many elected
officials got their followers to believe things that would justify an
attack on democracy. The question arises: could this happen in Canada?
Let’s analyze the chain of events that led to the riots to figure it
out.

The uprising started with the delegitimizing of the mail-in ballots. As
early as last April, former President Trump tweeted, “Republicans should
fight very hard when it comes to state-wide mail-in voting. Democrats
are clamoring for it. Tremendous potential for voter fraud, and for
whatever reason, doesn’t work out well for Republicans…” By doing this,
he initiated the idea that mail-in ballots are fraudulent, and should
not be counted. He continued to reiterate this up until the election. In
Canada, this could definitely happen. Someone could suggest that there
could be mail-in fraud and that we should do everything possible to have
a “free and fair” election. But would that be *enough* to start riots at
Parliament Hill?

On November 7, 2020, when Joe Biden was declared the winner of the
Presidential election, Trump and the majority of the Republican Party
claimed that the entire election was rigged through mail-in ballots and
voter suppression in favour of Democrats. The idea of a stolen election
brought America one step closer to the riots, because it wasn’t just
implying that there was a likelihood of fraud, but that the *entire*
election was rigged. Again, this could happen here in Canada. The
election could be questioned. But would these two things be enough to
cause a riot?

Then, on January 6, there was a MAGA (Make America Great Again) rally in
Washington D.C.. Trump’s speech was inflammatory; it was clear that he
and the other speakers were pushing for what happened next. It started
with the usual claims of election fraud. Then he proceeded to say that
“History is going to be made. We’re going to see whether or not we have
great and courageous leaders or whether or not we have leaders that
should be ashamed of themselves throughout history.” This is a clear
call to action. During the entire speech, there were lies in almost
every phrase such as, “This is the most corrupt election in the history,
maybe of the world.” The way he ended his speech was one of his most
overt incitements of insurrection. “So we’re going to, we’re going to
walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, I love Pennsylvania Avenue, and we’re
going to the Capitol and we’re going to try and give… The Democrats are
hopeless...But we’re going to try and give our Republicans, the weak
ones, because the strong ones don’t need any of our help, we’re going to
try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that they need to take
back our country.” This messaging was being fed to a mob that already
felt as though they had all been cheated. They managed to breach the
Capitol, desecrate it, and try to attack congresspeople. Eventually it
was dealt with, and they were removed, but the ideological meaning
behind this shows the great divide in our society. The dogmatism of the
MAGA movement is clear, and because Trump is their divine figure, they
will defend him at the cost of democracy. Refusing the results of an
election because your candidate lost is anti-democratic because it
undermines the entire foundation of the system. January 6 was the climax
of election tensions and something this drastic most likely wouldn’t
happen in Canada. There would only be a portion of the population that
would believe in the possibility of fraud, and most Canadians probably
would not want to engage in violence. This is a drastic step that
Canadians wouldn’t take.

However, claims of fraudulent ballots and the questioning of validity of
some ridings are two valid possibilities. Regardless, this wouldn’t lead
to an uprising as it did in the United States. In a recent poll by Angus
Reid, less than 1 in 5 Canadians believe that the U.S. election was
unfair. An even smaller number would attend a violent rally to protest
that. Even more proof of this is the Canadian federal government's
decision, on February 3, to declare the Proud Boys as a terrorist
entity. The Proud Boys are a far-right, neo-fascist group that regularly
engages in, and provokes, political violence. This decision was only
possible because our politics are, in general, more left-leaning.

**Further Reading: Post-Riot Events**

After the insurrection, Trump was permanently banned from his social
media platforms, because the respective companies didn’t want to be
associated with him. His Twitter account had peddled blatant
misinformation in regards to election fraud and far-right conspiracy
theories. After Trump’s social media removal, there was also a purge of
many other far-right accounts across social media platforms, so they
could distance themselves from the January 6 attack. This wouldn’t
happen here; our political climate would have to change drastically for
one of our politicians to engage in activity that could get them banned
from social media.

Trump then decided to not attend President Biden’s inauguration. He was
the first outgoing President to not attend his successor’s inauguration
since Andrew Johnson in 1869. This shows the intense divisiveness
surrounding the election, and the extreme lack of unity. If Trump had
accepted his loss and been at the inauguration, it could have calmed
down some of the political tension in America. The inauguration itself
had much more security than usual to prevent any violence like the
insurrection at the Capitol, and nothing happened. This was the final
moment of the transfer of power, and the end of claims of ‘Trump can
still win’. This is something that Canadians would never do. Out of
politeness alone, they would attend their opponent’s swearing-in
ceremony.

This timeline shows how a claim as simple as questioning the validity of
mail-in ballots can spiral into an insurrection at the centre of a
country’s democracy. Even though we might not get to that final step
anytime soon, we still have to remain wary of these problems because
they aren’t unique to America. Canadians are not immune to the same
rhetoric that is used in the United States. Many of the incremental
things that happened there could also happen here. A Léger poll in
September showed that only 16% of Canadians support Donald Trump.
However, when you break this number down it is more revealing; 41% of
Canadians who are affiliated with the Conservative Party of Canada
support Trump. Pro-Trump rallies took place in Toronto and Calgary on
January 6. This is an issue across all of North America. To combat this,
we need to restore faith in science, and continue to persist in
de-radicalizing people from the right, to prevent other attacks such as
the Capitol Hill riot, or other anti-democracy movements such as
\#stopthesteal. Another tactic is to make these movements politically
irrelevant. 34% of Americans and 33% of Canadians didn’t vote in their
latest federal elections. Appealing to this demographic and getting them
to vote would help a great deal in stopping violence and ending the
undermining of our democratic values.

An attack on Parliament Hill isn’t going to happen anytime soon. Despite
that, many actions and ideas adjacent to the attack are definitely
possible. It is up to us to stop them.
