---
author: mhutzul
image: assets/images/2021-01-21-The_Good_Place.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: 'The Good Place: The Kind of Show We Need Right Now'
---

*The Good Place* is a Netflix series that ran from 2018 to 2020. It
spanned four seasons, and was far from your typical sitcom. Meet Eleanor
Shellstrop, a self-centred, terrible human being who is accidentally
sent to \"The Good Place\", or Heaven, and must therefore improve
herself in order to stay there. Over the course of the series, she
learns ethics from a philosophy professor named Chidi, befriends wealthy
socialite named Tahani, meets a member of the all-powerful race of
Janets, and a number of other crazy characters.

What makes *The Good Place* different from almost all the other shows
today is its rejection of the sitcom status quo. While it does focus on
the wacky hijinks of the main characters, it is unique because it puts
character development at its forefront, and constantly rewrites its
premise.

The show doesn't truly come into its own until the end of season 1 -
which, without spoiling anything, completely changes what you thought
you knew about the characters. From there it takes off, leaning into the
absurdity of its premise (featuring a struggling demon actress as one of
its highlights). This sitcom is one of the few shows that has managed to
keep me consistently guessing and entertained, without losing sight of
its original premise.

For a show about philosophy, *The Good Place* deals with a number of
moral and ethical dilemmas. Should good deeds count if they are for
selfish reasons? What do we owe each other? I had never heard of
utilitarianism or moral particularism before, but the show manages to
make the learning of philosophy integral to the plot - without boring
its audience. It helps that Jason, the walking embodiment of every
Florida man stereotype, is always there with a story about his dance
crew, or a crazy crime he committed - or sometimes even both, as was the
case when he framed a girl named Sheila for stealing boogie boards to
stop the best pop-and-locker on his dance crew from moving away.

The key reason that *The Good Place* has appealed to so many people
during these times is because it offers a positive view on humanity. Our
innovation, resilience, and desire to improve ourselves are at the
center of the show, as Eleanor (and the others around her) become better
people. There are more than a few offhand remarks and jabs at our
society today - particularly with Brent in season 4, who - as the
epitome of the \"dudebro\" stereotype - is clearly based on Supreme
Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, and manages to come across worse than
some of the *demons* on the show.

However, at the end of the day, the message of the show is a positive
one, as each of the characters overcomes their flaws and become the best
version of themselves. While the show condemns the humans for their past
actions, it praises them for their ability to improve themselves,
showing the positive effect they can have on the world around them. In a
time when so many people have resorted to negativity and pessimism, it
is the little bit of positivity you didn't know that you were missing.

Over the course of the four seasons, there is one line that I think
stands out above all others and nicely represents the main theme of the
show: *"What matters isn't if people are good or bad; what matters is if
they're trying to be better today than they were yesterday."* We should
all aim to be the best versions of ourselves, even when it's hard and
there is no obvious reward. *The Good Place* has done exemplary work in
showing humanity at its highest and lowest. It manages to be optimistic
about our future, even when it feels like there isn't much to be
optimistic about. This is why *The Good Place* is the kind of show we
need right now.

Photo Source: [*Better Days Ahead*](https://unsplash.com/photos/B5LGz92kaAM) by Ian Taylor, from Unsplash.
